_guides/linkedin.md, before:

---
title: "Linkedin"
updated: "2019-09-20"
category: "Account Security"
---

Don't make yourself a target through your LinkedIn profile. If you work in a high-risk field, like cryptocurrency, we highly recommend *against* broadcasting that information to the Internet (e.g., don't say where you work, don't call yourself a crypto evangelist and don't say you attend monthly crypto meetups)

Locking Down Your Account
=========================

Navigate to your account information to view your **LinkedIn Security & Privacy** settings:

1.  Click the **Me** icon at the top of your LinkedIn homepage.
2.  Select **Settings & Privacy** from the dropdown.
3.  Click the **Account** tab at the top of the page. 

     Login and Security

    -   **Email Addresses** - Any email you have here must have a strong password, 2FA (Google Auth or YubiKey, no SMS) and disabled SMS recovery capabilities.  
    -   **Phone numbers** - This is unfortunately the only method of 2FA for LinkedIn, but you should make sure that the phone number has "Use for password reset" unchecked. Use a phone number that is NOT your mobile number like a Google Voice number. We will limit who can see this phone number or find you via it in a later section.
    -   **Change Password** - Make sure this password is long, complex, and unique. If you haven't change this in a while, change it now.
    -   **Where you're signed in** - Review this and remove any session other than the one you are on. You will be asked to login again your other devices. This will clear any rogue session that may exist.
    -   **Two-Step Verification** - Since you've turned off "Use for password reset" this is the best 2FA you are going to get with LinkedIn right now. Enable this to point to your Google Voice number.

     Site Preferences

    -   **Language** - Choose your favorite language.
    -   **Autoplay Videos** - Turn this off in the event there is some video-based exploit in the future.
    -   **Showing Profile Photos** - You can leave this on for "Everyone".
    -   **Feed preferences** - You can leave this alone unless you want to customize who you follow and see updates from.
    -   **Name, Location, Industry** - Pay attention here. This is where a lot of the privacy information comes from within LinkedIn.

        -   Your headline leaks where you currently work. Consider changing this to "YOUR_ROLE at Undisclosed" if you work somewhere that might put you at a higher risk.
        -   Current position maps to what your current position is in your profile. Leave this as-is for now and we will customize it later.
        -   Uncheck "Show education in my intro".
        -   Country/Region - You can leave this as-is or change to something fake.
        -   Zip Code - Remove this if there is anything there.
        -   Industry - Select something other than Financial Services, Banking, etc.
        -   Contact Info - click the "pencil" icon and clear out anything sensitive. Your email there is the email that you login with and we'll secure that later in this exercise. Click Apply when done. Scroll back down to "Summary"
        -   Summary - This is your Bio. Consider against leaking sensitive info that might make you a target.
        -   Media - Click the "pencil" to remove anything that might make you a target (e.g., your workplace or any other sensitive info).
        -   Click "Save".

     Subscriptions and Payments

    -   **Upgrade for Free** - Don't ever do this. Don't ever do this. 
    -   **View Purchase History** - Don't need to modify.

     Partners and Services

    -   **Microsoft** - If you have anything connected here, delete it.
    -   **Permitted Services** - If you have any connected here, delete it.
    -   **Twitter Settings** - Remove your Twitter account from here.

     Account Management

4.  Click the **Privacy** tab at the top of the page.

     How others see your profile and network information

    -   Review Settings under **Edit Your Profile**. The most important piece here is to restrict the visibility of your profile. The less publicly visible, the better. Configure the settings for the following fields:
        -   **Your Profiles Public Visibility** - This is recommended to be turned "Off".
        -   If you don't want to go that far or can't for business reasons make the following changes to the radio buttons below:
            -   Profile Photos - Set to your connections only.
            -   Headline - Show (Consider against mentioning sensitive info) 
            -   Websites - Hide
            -   Summary - Show (Consider against mentioning sensitive info)
            -   Posts & Activities - Hide
            -   Current Experience - Hide (Consider against mentioning sensitive info)
            -   Past Experience - Hide
            -   Education - Hide
            -   Volunteer Experiences - Hide
            -   Projects - Hide
            -   Publications - Hide
            -   Courses - Hide
            -   Honor and Awards - Hide
            -   Languages - Hide
            -   Organizations - Hide
            -   Groups - Hide
            -   Recommendations - Hide

    -   Click **Back to LinkedIn** at the top right.

    -   Disable **Who Can See Your Email Address**. Make your email address only visible to you and ensure the setting to allow your connections to download your email in their data export is set to "No".
    -   Set "Only You" for the option of **Who Can See Your Connections**. If a hacker is trying to target you, they'll do that either directly or through one of your connections. Similarly, if a hacker is trying to target someone else or a company, they'll do that either directly or through a connection, which could be you. Minimizing who can see your connections will make this step of the attack harder.
    -   **Viewers of this profile also viewed **- Change this to "No" this might tip someone off of others who work with you at your workplace even if their profile is sanitized.
    -   Minimize **Who Can See Your Last Name** settings to be abbreviated to just the first letter of your last name.
    -   **Representing your organization and interests** - Set this to "No"
    -   Disable **Profile visibility off LinkedIn**.
    -   **Microsoft Word** - Change this to "No". 

     How others see your LinkedIn activity

    -   **Profile viewing options** - turn on private mode
    -   **Manage active status** - set to "No One"
    -   **Share job changes** - No
    -   **Notify connections when you're in the new** - No
    -   **Mentions or tags by others** - Set to "No" someone else could leak your work by tagging you in an article or related message

     How LinkedIn uses your data

    -   Review the** Manage your data and activity** log to see the security settings you've enabled over the course of having your account.
    -   Disable both the settings allowing people to discover you through phone and email.
    -   Disable syncing with your calendars and contact lists.

     Blocking and Hiding

    -   Under** Followers** you can review who is allowed to follow you. As an added layer of security, you should only allowing connections to be followers. If you grant wide open following access to everyone, this will allow people outside your network to follow your public updates.

5.  Click the **Ads** tab at the top of the page. 

     Ads

    -   **Ads** - Set everything to "No" or uncheck all items on this tab.

6.  Click the **Communications** tab at the top of the page. 

     Notifications by channel

    -   **On LinkedIn - **turn off items that you don't want to be bothered about
    -   **Email -** recommended you turn all of these off
    -   **Push -** recommended you turn all of these off

     Who can reach you

    -   **Connection Request - **This really needs more settings but you need leave this open if you ever want to get connection requests. If not, change this to "Only people who appear in your "Imported Contacts" list and **never import any contacts.**
    -   **Messages** - Turn both these settings off.
    -   **Research Invites **- Change to "No".

     Messaging experience

    -   **Read receipts and typing indicator** - Change to "off".
    -   **Reply suggestions** - Change to "off".

Commit message:

updated intro and account access section
and also just a test editing in browser

_guides/linkedin.md, after:

---
title: "Linkedin"
updated: "2019-09-20"
category: "Account Security"
---

Stealth is the new black. 
Don't make yourself a target if you don't have to. 
It's easy to attract the wrong kinds of attention. 
It's easy to unintentionally do this using your LinkedIn profile, for example, by revealing more information than you need to just to get a little (or no) value from sharing it. 
This is especially true if you work in an industry that attracts criminals, like financial technology companies. We highly recommend *against* broadcasting that you're into crypto and/or bragging in genereral to the Internet (e.g., don't say where you work, don't call yourself a crypto evangelist and don't say you attend monthly crypto meetups, for example). 
Instead, fly low and avoid showing up on any unwanted radar. 
That's why this guide exists --> to help you reduce your attack surface while still gaining value from using a platform
designed to connect people.


Locking Down Your Account
=========================

Navigate to your account information to view your **LinkedIn Security & Privacy** settings:

1.  Click the **Me** icon in the top-right-ish corner of your LinkedIn homepage
2.  Select **Settings & Privacy** 
3.  Click **Sign in & security** along the left side of the page. 

     Account and Access

    -   **Email Addresses** - Any email you have here must have a strong password, 2FA (Google Auth or YubiKey, no SMS) and disabled SMS recovery capabilities.  
    -   **Phone numbers** - This is unfortunately the only method of 2FA for LinkedIn, but you should make sure that the phone number has "Use for password reset" unchecked. Use a phone number that is NOT your mobile number like a Google Voice number. We will limit who can see this phone number or find you via it in a later section.
    -   **Change Password** - Make sure this password is long, complex, and unique. If you haven't change this in a while, change it now.
    -   **Where you're signed in** - Review this and remove any session other than the one you are on. You will be asked to login again your other devices. This will clear any rogue session that may exist.
    -   **Two-Step Verification** - Since you've turned off "Use for password reset" this is the best 2FA you are going to get with LinkedIn right now. Enable this to point to your Google Voice number.

     Site Preferences

    -   **Language** - Choose your favorite language.
    -   **Autoplay Videos** - Turn this off in the event there is some video-based exploit in the future.
    -   **Showing Profile Photos** - You can leave this on for "Everyone".
    -   **Feed preferences** - You can leave this alone unless you want to customize who you follow and see updates from.
    -   **Name, Location, Industry** - Pay attention here. This is where a lot of the privacy information comes from within LinkedIn.

        -   Your headline leaks where you currently work. Consider changing this to "YOUR_ROLE at Undisclosed" if you work somewhere that might put you at a higher risk.
        -   Current position maps to what your current position is in your profile. Leave this as-is for now and we will customize it later.
        -   Uncheck "Show education in my intro".
        -   Country/Region - You can leave this as-is or change to something fake.
        -   Zip Code - Remove this if there is anything there.
        -   Industry - Select something other than Financial Services, Banking, etc.
        -   Contact Info - click the "pencil" icon and clear out anything sensitive. Your email there is the email that you login with and we'll secure that later in this exercise. Click Apply when done. Scroll back down to "Summary"
        -   Summary - This is your Bio. Consider against leaking sensitive info that might make you a target.
        -   Media - Click the "pencil" to remove anything that might make you a target (e.g., your workplace or any other sensitive info).
        -   Click "Save".

     Subscriptions and Payments

    -   **Upgrade for Free** - Don't ever do this. Don't ever do this. 
    -   **View Purchase History** - Don't need to modify.

     Partners and Services

    -   **Microsoft** - If you have anything connected here, delete it.
    -   **Permitted Services** - If you have any connected here, delete it.
    -   **Twitter Settings** - Remove your Twitter account from here.

     Account Management

4.  Click the **Privacy** tab at the top of the page.

     How others see your profile and network information

    -   Review Settings under **Edit Your Profile**. The most important piece here is to restrict the visibility of your profile. The less publicly visible, the better. Configure the settings for the following fields:
        -   **Your Profiles Public Visibility** - This is recommended to be turned "Off".
        -   If you don't want to go that far or can't for business reasons make the following changes to the radio buttons below:
            -   Profile Photos - Set to your connections only.
            -   Headline - Show (Consider against mentioning sensitive info) 
            -   Websites - Hide
            -   Summary - Show (Consider against mentioning sensitive info)
            -   Posts & Activities - Hide
            -   Current Experience - Hide (Consider against mentioning sensitive info)
            -   Past Experience - Hide
            -   Education - Hide
            -   Volunteer Experiences - Hide
            -   Projects - Hide
            -   Publications - Hide
            -   Courses - Hide
            -   Honor and Awards - Hide
            -   Languages - Hide
            -   Organizations - Hide
            -   Groups - Hide
            -   Recommendations - Hide

    -   Click **Back to LinkedIn** at the top right.

    -   Disable **Who Can See Your Email Address**. Make your email address only visible to you and ensure the setting to allow your connections to download your email in their data export is set to "No".
    -   Set "Only You" for the option of **Who Can See Your Connections**. If a hacker is trying to target you, they'll do that either directly or through one of your connections. Similarly, if a hacker is trying to target someone else or a company, they'll do that either directly or through a connection, which could be you. Minimizing who can see your connections will make this step of the attack harder.
    -   **Viewers of this profile also viewed **- Change this to "No" this might tip someone off of others who work with you at your workplace even if their profile is sanitized.
    -   Minimize **Who Can See Your Last Name** settings to be abbreviated to just the first letter of your last name.
    -   **Representing your organization and interests** - Set this to "No"
    -   Disable **Profile visibility off LinkedIn**.
    -   **Microsoft Word** - Change this to "No". 

     How others see your LinkedIn activity

    -   **Profile viewing options** - turn on private mode
    -   **Manage active status** - set to "No One"
    -   **Share job changes** - No
    -   **Notify connections when you're in the new** - No
    -   **Mentions or tags by others** - Set to "No" someone else could leak your work by tagging you in an article or related message

     How LinkedIn uses your data

    -   Review the** Manage your data and activity** log to see the security settings you've enabled over the course of having your account.
    -   Disable both the settings allowing people to discover you through phone and email.
    -   Disable syncing with your calendars and contact lists.

     Blocking and Hiding

    -   Under** Followers** you can review who is allowed to follow you. As an added layer of security, you should only allowing connections to be followers. If you grant wide open following access to everyone, this will allow people outside your network to follow your public updates.

5.  Click the **Ads** tab at the top of the page. 

     Ads

    -   **Ads** - Set everything to "No" or uncheck all items on this tab.

6.  Click the **Communications** tab at the top of the page. 

     Notifications by channel

    -   **On LinkedIn - **turn off items that you don't want to be bothered about
    -   **Email -** recommended you turn all of these off
    -   **Push -** recommended you turn all of these off

     Who can reach you

    -   **Connection Request - **This really needs more settings but you need leave this open if you ever want to get connection requests. If not, change this to "Only people who appear in your "Imported Contacts" list and **never import any contacts.**
    -   **Messages** - Turn both these settings off.
    -   **Research Invites **- Change to "No".

     Messaging experience

    -   **Read receipts and typing indicator** - Change to "off".
    -   **Reply suggestions** - Change to "off".
