_guides/personalcomputer.md, before:

---
title: "Personal Computer"
updated: "2020-03-06"
category: "Personal"
---

You may also have a personal computer that you use for activities like online banking, shopping, and other personal activities. The list of recommendations for maintaining your personal computer are similar to those for your mobile device but expanded. They are: 

-   Keep it updated at all times. Don't delay updates.

-   Choose a strong password to login and ensure your computer locks immediately upon being put into sleep mode or physically shut. This can be configured in the settings.

-   Enable Full Disk Encryption. This is called File Vault on MacOS, LUKS on Linux and BitLocker on Windows Professional Edition computers. If you have a Windows Home Edition, try VeraCrypt.

-   Turn on the built-in Firewall.

-   Install and maintain a subscription of Antivirus software. If you are looking for a suggestion, give Bitdefender a try. It has been found to be inexpensive and effective.

-   Use a Chrome or Firefox for browsing and keep it up to date.

-   Install an ad blocker like uBlock Origin and browser privacy extension like Privacy Badger.

-   Install and use a password manager that can securely sync across your personal devices, for both mobile and desktop use, such as [Dashlane](https://www.dashlane.com/), [Lastpass](https://www.lastpass.com/) or [1Password](https://1password.com/). Ensure you have selected a very strong master password. 

-   Use search engines like [DuckDuckGo](https://duckduckgo.com/) to limit the tracking of what you are doing.

-   Consider switching your personal email to a privacy-focused service, such as [Protonmail](https://protonmail.com/).

-   Subscribe to a personal VPN service such as [PIA](https://www.privateinternetaccess.com/) and enable an encrypted tunnel from your personal computer, past your ISP and then out at random or configurable locations on the internet.

-   Use a secure messenger app such as [Signal](https://signal.org/) to communicate with friends, family members, and industry colleagues.

-   Add a physical layer of security by getting a Privacy Screen, camera cover and laptop lock that is compatible with your personal computer. Depending on your screen size, Privacy Screens will run your about $50-$100 dollars, a camera cover will be < $10 and a laptop lock will cost about $20. These are important if you are one who likes to change locations frequently and work from semi-public places.

*(This guide is part of a [series on Personal Security](/news/2020-03-06-personal-security-series).)*

Commit message:

Prefer OS built-in antivirus to external products
Most antivirus software is crap ridden with bugs and backdoors. Some intentinally put themselves as MITM in HTTPS communication.

_guides/personalcomputer.md, after:

---
title: "Personal Computer"
updated: "2020-03-06"
category: "Personal"
---

You may also have a personal computer that you use for activities like online banking, shopping, and other personal activities. The list of recommendations for maintaining your personal computer are similar to those for your mobile device but expanded. They are: 

-   Keep it updated at all times. Don't delay updates.

-   Choose a strong password to login and ensure your computer locks immediately upon being put into sleep mode or physically shut. This can be configured in the settings.

-   Enable Full Disk Encryption. This is called File Vault on MacOS, LUKS on Linux and BitLocker on Windows Professional Edition computers. If you have a Windows Home Edition, try VeraCrypt.

-   Turn on the built-in Firewall.

-   Use OS built-in antivirus software. Be wary of external antivirus products. Historically, multiple antivirus programs turned out to have accidental or intentional backdoors.

-   Use a Chrome or Firefox for browsing and keep it up to date.

-   Install an ad blocker like uBlock Origin and browser privacy extension like Privacy Badger.

-   Install and use a password manager that can securely sync across your personal devices, for both mobile and desktop use, such as [Dashlane](https://www.dashlane.com/), [Lastpass](https://www.lastpass.com/) or [1Password](https://1password.com/). Ensure you have selected a very strong master password. 

-   Use search engines like [DuckDuckGo](https://duckduckgo.com/) to limit the tracking of what you are doing.

-   Consider switching your personal email to a privacy-focused service, such as [Protonmail](https://protonmail.com/).

-   Subscribe to a personal VPN service such as [PIA](https://www.privateinternetaccess.com/) and enable an encrypted tunnel from your personal computer, past your ISP and then out at random or configurable locations on the internet.

-   Use a secure messenger app such as [Signal](https://signal.org/) to communicate with friends, family members, and industry colleagues.

-   Add a physical layer of security by getting a Privacy Screen, camera cover and laptop lock that is compatible with your personal computer. Depending on your screen size, Privacy Screens will run your about $50-$100 dollars, a camera cover will be < $10 and a laptop lock will cost about $20. These are important if you are one who likes to change locations frequently and work from semi-public places.

*(This guide is part of a [series on Personal Security](/news/2020-03-06-personal-security-series).)*
