---
title: "Travel Security"
updated: "2019-10-28"
category: "Personal"
---

1.  **Understand the Risks**: Both business and personal travel have inherent risks that you should be aware of. The most common risk when traveling is to fall trap to some form of theft or scam, but depending on destination, there could also be very real physical threats present. Prepare for your trip by spending some time reading reports for your destination on <https://travel.state.gov/> - here you can search for the location and see 1) any recent alerts and 2) the history of the security and safety risks so that you are best prepared for your trip. If you are a U.S. citizen, consider enrolling in the [STEP Program](https://step.state.gov/step/) prior to any trip; this will enroll you to the nearest U.S. Embassy or Consulate at your destination in the case of any emergencies.

2.  **Have the Correct Visas**: If you are traveling to a location where a passport is needed, you may also need a Visa for entry. It is vitally important that you make sure your passport will not expire within 6 months of your visit and that you have the correct Visa for your visit. Each country will have their own unique entrance requirements and Visa application process. The most common types of Visas are Tourist and Business Visas, each with a different number of entrance frequency and duration limits. It important that you not be traveling for Business on a Tourist Visa. The seriousness of getting caught doing so could cost you a significant fine, deportation, and potentially even getting barred from entering the country for several years (or life). The application process for some countries to obtain a Visa will require a bit of work, so in these cases, it is possible to use a service such as [A Briggs](https://abriggs.com/) to manage the process for you. The cost will be about 2x what you would pay going through the process on your own but this service will ensure you have received the correct Visa type and in time for your scheduled trip.

3.  **Get Vaccinated**: If you are traveling to a Third World country, vaccinations are often a requirement for entry. It is highly advised that you see your primary care physician to ensure you have the specific vaccinations needed for your destination. After you have been vaccinated you will be given a yellow card that you should carry with your passport at all times. Yes, there are active debates in the world around the risks of the vaccinations themselves. Traveling to a Third World country is not the time to take a stand against vaccinations. This is not the common cold or flu you are preventing against; diseases like measles, mumps, rubella, and yellow fever are not something you want to roll the dice against contracting while you are traveling.

4.  **Dress like a College Student**: We often think about profiling that takes place by law enforcement and border crossing agents, but criminals also profile as well. Why would they risk everything to attempt to rob someone who has nothing to offer them? The worst thing you can do while traveling is to dress in expensive clothing, jewelry and have expensive luggage. Doing so means that when you are walking through an airport or down the street to your hotel, you will stand out against the other people around you. You do not want to standout. The best, simple advice you can use to understand how you should dress while traveling is to think of what a college student would wear and blend into your surroundings. It is also important to not wear anything with a logo on it that would attract unwanted attention either.

5.  **Don't Lie**: If you work in a sensitive industry like cryptocurrency, you should be cautious in sharing this information with people you may not know. An exception to this rule is during times when you are speaking to an immigration or customs officer during a border crossing. Lying to these government officials could get you deported or put into jail. Consider responding to direct questions with specific and concise information. If at any time you come across as being rude or bothered by their questioning or uncooperative, you should expect a bad situation and severe delays in your trip. Always be polite, kind and thank them when they let you pass.

6.  **Bring Only One Computer**: There is really no great explanation for this, but traveling with more than one computer, especially 3, is a trigger point for travel security personnel and you should expect a secondary search or delays. If you can avoid it, only bring one computer with you when you travel.

7.  **Use a VPN**: The time to use a VPN is when you are traveling, especially if you will be connecting via hotel or free Wi-Fi services. In general, "free" Internet is NOT safe but if you have no choice, then connecting and then firing up a VPN is the best way to mitigate risks that do exist. If at any time while you are connected, you see TLS/SSL certificate errors while connected, this is a sign that something bad is happening and you should not "click through" to continue. Instead, disconnect with this Internet provider and attempt to find another that will be more secure.

8.  **Don't Trust Hotel Safes**: Oftentimes hotels will have safes in the rooms as a convenience to their guests. It is true that putting your belongings in a hotel safe is likely better than leaving them out on your night stand, but it is important to understand that nearly every hotel safe has a bypass method that is publicly known. The result is that if you place your passport, money and computer in the safe that is in your room and someone breaks in while you are in the gym or at dinner, they know exactly where to look. If there isn't something laying out or stored inside the safe, they will more often than not move on to the next victim's room. This is a security decision you are going to need to make based upon the location you are visiting. In some places, carrying all of your valuables, passport, wallet and computer with you at all times is the best way to ensure their security. In other locations this would be a horrible idea and strategically hiding these belongings in your hotel room is the best way. You need to think about this carefully and make a decision based upon the research you have done and your own instinct.

9. **Use a Personal Door Lock**: This one is simple. When you are in your hotel room, you could deploy an extra layer of physical security in the form of a device that makes it impossible to open from the outside even if the person has a key. One such device (and there are many others on the market), is [Addalock](https://www.amazon.com/Rishon-Enterprises-Inc-I9889-Addalock/dp/B00186URTY).

10. **Be Mindful of Bugs or Other Monitoring**: When you are traveling, it is important to remember that you don't "own" the room you are renting for the evening. The owners of the hotel have the right to enter without your permission. Some less ethical owners may also place hidden cameras or microphones within your room. It is extremely important that you not treat your hotel room as a completely private area. Assume the room is bugged and act accordingly.

11. **Obey Local Laws**: The laws of the country you live in don't follow you when you travel. It is your responsibility to understand the local laws especially if they are stricter than your own country, particularly when it comes to drugs and alcohol consumption. Just like in your home country, if someone is offering goods or services, there is no guarantee that what they are offering is legal in the place you are visiting. There have been many cases of people traveling on business and getting arrested for activities that are 100% legal in their home country.

12. **Decline Propositions or Advances**: Having someone make you feel interesting and/or attractive is hard to pass up. Be very aware that these random advances are a common way to lure someone into a bad situation. This occurrence happens to people on trips very often because it works and the criminals or folks in the espionage business are not going to stop using these techniques any time soon. One common vector is "blackmailing". The attacker, for example, can attempt to obtain photos of you in a very compromising position to then use as leverage for getting something in return, like your passwords or a transfer of funds. The best way to avoid this type of attack is to never engage in this activity while on a trip and to also be very aware of the reality of this in your everyday life.

*(This guide is part of a [series on Personal Security](/news/2019-10-23-personal-security-series).)*
